---
title: Success Story 34
shorttitle: Design
category: success
layout: default
lang: en
---

# Design - Bell Helicopter

![helicopter](/img/portfolio/Helicopter.png){:class="img-responsive center-block"}{:width=150}

An important part of the design of a new helicopter is the flight test,
where data is collected measuring the forces on different components of
the helicopter. Before a helicopter design can be approved, one needs to
know that the design can withstand these forces over the expected lifetime
of the helicopter. A physical stress test is costly and time consuming,
and it can only apply about a half-dozen forces. Therefore it is essential
to choose the correct forces from the flight test, which will then be
applied in the physical stress tests. The correct forces are the extreme
(i.e., most important) forces in directions that cause wear and tear.
Choosing these forces is difficult, since millions of data points are
measured during the flight test and the data points are in high
dimensions.

The testing team uses expert knowledge to determine which points are
likely to be important. Data reduction is required, however. Our team
hoped to find a blind data reduction method that would agree with
the points found using expert knowledge. A research team consisting of a
professor, postdoctoral fellows, undergraduate students, and graduate
students worked with the team from Bell Helicopter using ideas from convex
analysis and computational mathematics to find the required extreme
points. The results of the blind algorithm agreed with the results
provided by expert knowledge. The results were used in time to go ahead
with the physical stress testing on a new model of helicopter.
